---
layout: post
title:  Turn off your babycam, turn on your Ilios v3.21
date:   2016-10-28 15:00:00
categories: releases
---

Like much of the country we were severely impacted by the massive DDoS attack on Dyn and the DNS upstream controls of the internet on Friday the 21st. This left us unable to complete our regular code release that day (or get out our newsletter, or update this site!). However, with the babycam and toaster cyber-army in abeyance for the moment, we are pleased to announce the release today of Ilios __v3.21__. This is update reflects a number of significant improvements and enhancements to the system and the API, including:

- New, comprehensive view of course learning materials;
- Additional views into past learning materials for students;
- foundations for the new robust, configurable permissions model;
- the ability to clone Curriculum Inventory Reports from year to year;
- improvements and bug fixes for the CI toolset;
- a whole new raft of other housekeeping and under-the-hood bug fixes, code enhancements, and improvements to reduce navigation errors and improve performance and usability.

__API Changes:__

- Added `learnerSessions` filter to users endpoint;
- Added `usermaterials` endpoint;

*Please note* that with this version update, we have deprecated the `cohort` endpoint for the API. The creation and modification of cohorts will now occur internally with the `ProgramYear` management process. This does not impact the management of learner groups or user-to-cohort assignment.

__AMAZON TIME__: If you are interested in hosting your Ilios instance on AWS, we now have a Ansible-deployed AWS-ready implementation of the Ilios code. Please [contact us](mailto:support@iliosproject.org?subject=AWS%20deployment%20inquiry){:target="_blank"} for more info.

__TRAINING__: Are you interested in getting a focused training for your power Ilios users and managers in your school or institution? We can do that for you: 1.5 - 2 days of focused training on the most effective ways to leverage Ilios as power users, and deliver information to your students and faculty in the best way possible, custom-tailored for your needs and methodologies. Please [contact us](mailto:support@iliosproject.org?subject=training%20inquiry){:target="_blank"} if you are interested.

The latest code, along with the full changelog, is available for download [here](https://github.com/ilios/ilios/releases/latest){:target="_blank"}

As always, please feel free to contact us at [support@iliosproject.org](mailto:support@iliosproject.org) or in [https://team-ilios.slack.com/messages/help/](https://team-ilios.slack.com/messages/help/) (if you have not yet joined our slack channel, you can get started by clicking [here](https://ilios-slack.herokuapp.com/). if you have any questions about this or any other release. You can see the full details of this release in  [the latest release announcement here](http://us3.campaign-archive2.com/home/?u=845c4ebabb5b5ae7a6372c715&id=1493e3df18){:target="_blank"}.
